MSC3989: Redact `origin` property on events (#3989)
matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals: proposals/3989-redact-origin-field.md

> # MSC3989: Redact `origin` field on events

Author: There's some potentially conflicting evidence on whether the field is actually used anywhere. https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec/issues/374 wishes that it'd disappear and links to https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec/pull/998 which removed it, though as noted in https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec/issues/1480#issuecomment-1495183789 this could have been overzealous? Either way, it's clear that we want the field to go away (further reading: https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/issues/3816 ), but there might be some issues with that (see also: https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/issues/8319 ).

The [current redaction algorithm](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.6/rooms/v10/#redactions) *keeps* the
top-level `origin` field on events during redaction, however the only use of it as of writing is

> a malformed example of event format. The field has no significant meaning in modern room versions.

Author: > however the only use of [the `origin` field] as of writing is a malformed example of event format

https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec/issues/1480

> # MSC3989: Redact `origin` field on events

Reviewer: I'm not going to make you go through and change everything, but just to remind you that https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec/blob/main/meta/documentation_style.rst#general says

> prefer the word "property" to "field", "member", or various other alternatives.

Author: At the MSC level were less concerned about these sorts of things, but noted for future.

Reviewer: yeah indeed, it doesn't matter for MSCs provided the intent is clear.

> The [current redaction algorithm](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.6/rooms/v10/#redactions) *keeps* the
> top-level `origin` field on events during redaction, however the only use of it within the spec
> as of writing is a malformed example of event format. The field has no significant meaning in
> modern room versions.

Reviewer: this confused me on first reading: `origin` *is* still specced (much to our annoyance) in lots of places other than the top-level property of an event.

```suggestion
The [current redaction algorithm](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.6/rooms/v10/#redactions) *keeps* the
top-level `origin` property on events during redaction, however, as of this writing, the only use within the 
spec of  `origin` as a top-level event property is a malformed example of event format. The field has no 
significant meaning in modern room versions.
```

Within the ecosystem, it's clear that we'd [prefer the field to disappear](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec/issues/374),
and have [tried to do so](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec/pull/998) in the past. The
malformed examples are even [known to us](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec/issues/1480).

What's not clear, and mentioned in [a comment](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec/issues/1480#issuecomment-1495183789),
is whether the `origin` field is *actually* used. There do not appear to be any auth rules or similar
which would use the field, however it'd hardly be the first time that the spec was wrong about an
ancient room version like v1. What is clear is that Synapse, where this question would be asked,
wants to [drop support](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/issues/3816) for the field and has
taken [steps](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/pull/8324) towards that mission by fixing bugs
in the area. In a [quick audit](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/3989#issuecomment-1497659507)
of the Synapse codebase during implementation of this MSC, the `origin` field appears unused.

> Given the above context, this proposal removes the `origin` field from the redaction algorithm in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given the above context, this proposal removes the `origin` field from the [redaction algorithm](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.7/rooms/v10/#redactions) in
```

Author: (it's linked 15 lines up too, fwiw)

Reviewer: oh sorry, I guess I missed that.
